So as I had before,
I have the solution outlined in a snippet file that we can copy paste from.
But what I want to make sure is that we understand what is
actually happening instead of just copy pasting that.
So what I'm going to do is step by step go through all the code as I
move it over to the contract and we'll see how this works.
So we'll start off by moving a constant that represents M. In this case,
I have M equals to,
we can change it to anything we want.
The next thing I have here is an array,
and what this array is going to be used for is to track all the addresses that
have called a function that needs to implement this multi-party consensus.
So we'll put that right there.
So it's a variable length array,
it can be used in any N scenario,
and it just keeps track of all the addresses that I have called.
Now, here's our setOperatingStatus variable.
What I am going to do is augment that code that's already there with completely new code.
So let me go ahead and move that code over.
So right now, it directly just changes the mode and we're going to restrict that
considerably by implementing the ability to have multi-party consensus.
All right. Let's walk through this code step-by-step.
So the first thing you'll notice is that there are two requires.
Now one of the important best practices you want to
develop is to make sure that all your contract functions fail first.
The idea here is that execution of code on
the ethereum blockchain via a Smart Contract costs money in the form of gas.
As a responsible developer,
you want to make sure that every possible way in which that
Smart Contract would have a condition or that function would have
a condition that would not work is avoid it upfront.
So you want to have your require statements that address every scenario.
So the first thing is,
we want to make sure that people don't waste money trying to change
the operating status to a status that is already present.
So that's what this line 134 does,
it ensures that you're actually trying to change the mode to something that it's not.
The next thing we want to do is constrain who can call this and what we require
is for the user to have an isAdmin equals true in their profile.
So if you recollect earlier,
we had this register user function and it has a boolean called isAdmin,
and any user that's registered would be considered an admin if this were true.
Now, I'm using the dynamic approach.
In other words, I am using the register user approach.
When starting the exercise,
I offered the possibility that you could have
all the admin users also set-up via the constructor,
and that might be what you did for your solution and that's perfectly valid.
In that case, you would have an array,
a set of five,
four or whatever your M is pass through as a constructor and you would retain that state.
But I like using the register user capability because it's very
dynamic and it allows us to add users later,
especially if a private key is lost or forgotten or such.
The next thing we want to do is prevent double voting.
So I have a boolean here called isDuplicate and I initially set it to false,
and then I loop through the current values of the multi calls
array which will store every address
that has called this particular function and is an administrator.
If the current caller which is represented by message.sender is already in the array,
then we break out and we report that it's a duplicate.
Now, I said earlier that we want to fail first and so obviously,
this particular require on line 144 is
going to incur some costs because there's this cost of iteration and this code here.
But that's unavoidable with an array approach.
Now, there's other approaches you could take,
including storing the names in the mapping etc,
where it might be possible to avoid that cost.
But that's an optimization exercise you can do.
One thing I'd like to point out here is that on line 138,
I have a for loop that goes through an array and the length of the array.
When you see a for loop with an iteration that is going through the length of an array,
that is a signal that you need to pay greater attention to the code there.
Now, because this is an exercise, it's fine to have it.
But in your regular contract,
you should carefully consider if an iteration should even be in your function.
The reason for that is because as you iterate through an array,
if the array is sufficiently long,
you risk the real possibility of hitting the block gas limit,
which will essentially prevent your smart contract from running any further.
This is a potential lockout scenario.
If you have for example an array of
a 101 entities and the block gas limit is reached at entity number 100,
whatever it is that your function is doing for entity 100 onward,
it will be impossible for it to ever perform that function,
so hat's a very serious lockout scenario.
So how would you mitigate that?
Well, you would want to not use arrays in
any scenarios where the arrays can grow very long,
in excess of perhaps 10, 20 items.
A better way to do that is to have an external client perform
the task of repeatedly calling the function with each entity that's there.
So the loop is essentially by the calling program versus within the Smart Contract.
Anyway, with that little best-practice knock it out of the way, let's move on.
So we have now defined a loop and we are ensuring
that the same user is not calling the contract,
and what we do is now that we've reached the point where
the caller is a legitimate admin and not a duplicate,
we go ahead and add them to the array.
So at this point, we have one user in the array if it's the first call,
and what we do is we check to see if the length of
the array is greater than or equal to the value of M,
that is our constant which defines how many are
required in order for the multiparty call to be executed.
If that is the case,
if the condition is met,
then we go ahead and change the mode and at the same time,
we also re-initialize multi calls.
This is an important step right here on 149 because if you forget to do that,
what will happen is that every subsequent call will automatically
have the multi calls length condition met and it'll just pass through,
thus defeating the very purpose of the multi call feature that you're implementing here.
So let's save this,
and I'm going to make sure that my code compiles,
so that's done with Truffle compile.
All right. So that compiled well,
so now let's go ahead and add a test.